.TH LLINT 1 "2026-03-08" "lunar-tools" "Lunar Linux"
.SH NAME
llint \- lint checker for Lunar Linux moonbase module files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B llint
.RI [ flags ]
.I module-name
.br
.B llint
.B \-\-path
.I module-dir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B llint
validates Lunar Linux moonbase module files (DETAILS, DEPENDS) for
correctness. It checks variable alignment, required fields, date formats,
heredoc formatting, and dependency declarations.
.PP
When given a module name,
.B llint
reads the lunar configuration to locate the module directory, checking
zlocal sections first before falling back to the module index.
When given a path with
.BR \-\-path ,
it lints the directory directly without requiring lunar configuration.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-fix
Auto-fix fixable issues by rewriting files in-place.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Show what was fixed. Use with
.BR \-\-fix .
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-line\-length " N"
Maximum line length for heredoc text in DETAILS. Default: 80.
.TP
.BI \-\-path " dir"
Lint a module directory directly, skipping config and index lookup.
Useful in CI and GitHub Actions.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version, commit SHA, and build date.
.SH DETAILS CHECKS
.TP
.B = alignment \fR(fixable)
All variable assignments must have = at the same column.
.TP
.B Special option placement \fR(fixable)
PSAFE, GARBAGE, ARCHIVE, KEEP_SOURCE, USE_WRAPPERS, COMPRESS_MANPAGES,
KEEP_OBSOLETE_LIBS, LUNAR_RESTART_SERVICES, LDD_CHECK, and FUZZY must
be flush-left after the main variable block.
.TP
.B Heredoc spacing \fR(fixable)
Exactly one blank line before
.B cat << EOF
and no extra blank lines after
.BR EOF .
.TP
.B Heredoc line length \fR(fixable)
Lines in the heredoc block must not exceed
.BR \-\-max\-line\-length .
.TP
.B Duplicate assignments \fR(partially fixable)
Exact duplicates are auto-removed. Conflicting duplicates (different values)
are errors.
.TP
.B Required fields
MODULE, VERSION, SOURCE, WEB_SITE, ENTERED, UPDATED, and SHORT must be present.
.TP
.B Date validation
ENTERED and UPDATED must be valid dates in yyyymmdd format, must not be
in the future, and UPDATED must be >= ENTERED.
.TP
.B MODULE name
The MODULE value must match the directory name (case-sensitive).
.SH DEPENDS CHECKS
.TP
.B Allowed functions only
Only
.BR depends ,
.BR optional_depends ,
.BR optional_depends_requires ,
and
.B optional_depends_one_of
are allowed.
.TP
.B No bash logic
if, case, for, while, test expressions, variable assignments, and command
substitutions are all errors.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
No errors found.
.TP
.B 1
Lint errors found.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error (bad arguments, missing config, module not found).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/lunar/config
Main lunar configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/lunar/local/config
Local configuration overlay.
.SH EXAMPLES
Lint a module by name:
.PP
.RS
.nf
llint zlib
.fi
.RE
.PP
Lint a module directory directly:
.PP
.RS
.nf
llint \-\-path /var/lib/lunar/moonbase/libs/zlib
.fi
.RE
.PP
Auto-fix issues with verbose output:
.PP
.RS
.nf
llint \-\-fix \-\-verbose zlib
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lunar (8)
